---
layout: default
img:
category: Services
title: UNIVERSITY OF WATERLOO HACK THE NORTH 2017 CANSOFCOM CHALLENGE FRAMEWORK 
description: |
---
  
### BACKGROUND
 
CANSOFCOM personnel are tasked and trained to conduct a wide range of dangerous missions on behalf of the Government of Canada.  One of these high risk missions is Hostage Rescue. 

One of the most important aspects of mission success in a Hostage Rescue operation is accurate and reliable intelligence; principally gathered from observation.  To ensure mission success, while reducing collateral damage, CANSOFCOM personnel continuously observe locations to determine patterns – an extremely time consuming and monotonous process.
  
### SCENARIO

A Canadian family has been kidnapped and is being held hostage in a [House/Office/Warehouse/Farm]. An incident response team has been dispatched comprised of both local and federal police authorities. They have each deployed drones with various camera technologies (high resolution, electro-optics, infra-red, etc.) that provide a live/near-real time feed to the analysts on the ground. 

The CANSOFCOM analysts have an important job of determining historical information of the hostage situation from previous footage from local security forces, in addition to live on-going footage of various drones. The analysts need to identify important key indicators (as described in the Challenge, below) that will help ensure a successful rescue operation by CANSOFCOM operators.
  
### CHALLENGE

CANSOFCOM seeks to automate the persistent monitoring process to discern patterns of personnel (both threat actors and innocent civilians), vehicles, distinguishing features (physical, pattern, movement, etc.), and to develop normalcy in patterns, which can be used to isolate deviations.  

The principle objective of automating the process is to reduce the person power required for the analysis of surveillance footage; thus allowing CANSOFCOM personnel more time and space to perform more pertinent tasks related to the operation.
  
### PRIZES

A unique one of a kind CANSOFCOM experience, featuring:
+ One-on-One discussions with CANSOFCOM Operators
+ Hands-on with CANSOFCOM drone technology
+ Student employment opportunity with CANSOFCOM
+ Custom Shadow box with CANSOFCOM memorabilia
+ CANSOFCOM and Canadian Armed Forces SWAG
  
### IDEAS FOR CONSIDERATION/INSPIRATION 

+ What kind of indicators and warnings exist to predict normalcy in patterns? (physical, pattern, movement, etc.)
	- Indexing identified content and being able to view the results in a grid/matrix/graph format

+ Utilize Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning tools to establish baseline and content identification such as:
	- TensorFlow
	- OpenCV
	- Object detection models such as YOLO, SSD or Faster_RCNN

+ What other new and growing technologies can you use to interpret and manipulate large data sets?

+ Can you create automated workflows that will reduce need for human analysis?
	- Can the user go back and replay a specific segment of video and verify the content analytics?
	- Can the user compare different video footage including metadata and what content has been already analyzed?

+ Easily scalable and deployable web frameworks for common/shared user access
	- Produce visually appealing and meaningful interfaces that are user friendly to use/configure
	- Mapping the route of identified people/vehicles on a Map
  
### SOLUTION

So what does solving this challenge accomplish? 

Quite simply, solving this challenge will assist in one aspect of understanding the risk associated with a CANSOFCOM Hostage Rescue situation and thus increasing the likelihood of operational success and saving lives.

Solving this challenge will not just help CANSOFCOM in a Hostage Rescue situation but has multi-dimensional applications across many military and security fields. 

Solving this challenge makes a real life difference to Canadians. 

### _WE WILL FIND A WAY_
